---
layout: post
title: Week 4
---

Last Wednesday, guest speakers Deena Engel and Vicky Steeves came to our class to discuss Open Data, the different ways in which data sets can be formatted, methods for cleaning datasets and most importantly where to find these open datasets. Professor Deena Engel began her presentation by going over the ways of formatting datasets and I was personally exposed to formats that I was previously unfamiliar with such as tab-separated-values (TSV) files and Extensible Markup Language (XML). In order to make use of these types of datasets for research, it’s important to be able to target specific information and extract it from the larger set for analysis. So I was happy to be introduced to tools such as Beautiful Soup, that can allow one to easily parse through and extract data from XML and HTML files. Unfortunately, as Deena Engel and Vicky Steeves touched on in their presentations, data can often be messy meaning that information is not uniformly formatted throughout the dataset. It is therefore very important that data is cleaned to catch different exceptions that may occur like for example a date can be formatted as 02/19/2020 as well as in text like February 19, 2020. So Professor Deena Engel went on to introduce us to OpenRefine that can assist with the tedious task of data cleaning. The session as then concluded with Vicky Steeve’s presentation on different resources for finding open data. From her presentation I was able to learn about awesome public datasets which is a github repository that has collection of different datasets that are organized by different topics for ease of access. As someone that is very new to the world of data science, I really enjoyed both presentations as I learned so much and I now have access to more resources that should help me in projects going forward.
