---
layout: post
title: Week 6: Project Evaluations
---

## Vicky Steeves - Reproducibility

   This week we had the pleasure of having Vicky Steeves return to our class to discuss the importance of reproducibility in research. Research is an incremental process by which new discoveries are built on top of the foundation of previous works. It is therefore important that we are able verify previous work by reproducing the results from the past. This was always a concept that I was aware of, but I had never previously considered it in the context of computer science. As Vicky Steeves rightly pointed out, many of the programs from decades ago cannot be reproduced on our current machines. It was interesting to learn about how archivists have been preserving entire environments in which programs were developed just to be able to reproduce results and how this was been done using GitLab.

## Project Evaluations

   For this week’s project evaluations, I was tasked with assessing OpenEMR and Atom’s Autocomplete-Plus. OpenEMR is an open source electronic medical records and medical practice management system whereas Autocomplete-Plus is a package in the much larger Atom project that is responsible for providing suggestions on keystrokes in the text-editor. I had vastly different experiences evaluating these two projects. OpenEMR has a relatively small community with just over 100 contributors yet they are very active. Members of the OpenEMR can respond to issues within the hour and are able to close most issues within one day. Furthermore, they are actively contributing to the project with over 250 pull requests being made in the last six months and the maintainers are equally as active with the last pull request being merged on March 8, 2020 at 8:24PM EDT. Atom’s community is also relatively small with around 400 contributors, but it is a much larger project with over 200 repositories making it difficult to maintain. The members of the Atom community were not very active in the autocomplete-plus repository as demonstrated by the lack of contributions within the last six months. Issues are usually open for around two weeks and can stay open for up to months at a time. Most issues with suggestions for new functionality are dismissed as the maintainers are so overwhelmed that they simply do not have the time to implement them. I wouldn’t recommend contributing to this project as the maintainers are very particular about the direction of the project and don’t seem eager to make any changes. You’ll most likely make a pull request that will remain open indefinitely. I would however highly recommend OpenEMR for individuals that are interested in in public health and database management as it has a very open and welcoming community.
