---
layout: post
title: Week 2
---

Comment about your group work on the browser extension


Our group decided to make a browser extension that will display the current time at each of NYU's degree granting campuses. Sylvia came up with original idea to create a world clock and I suggested that we make the extension more centered around NYU. As a student from NYU Shanghai, registering for classes can be a struggle as the enrollment times on Albert are based on New York's time zone. As a result I usually have to bring up a world clock in another tab to ensure that I don't miss out on popular classes. This problem is even worse for students that are going to study away in New York as now we're competing with 50,000 other students but our enrollment times are usually late at night and so one can easily miss that opening period. It's for these reasons that I believed that an extension that could display the time right on the webpage would be useful to students in the wider NYU network.

Describe your own contributions to your team's efforts of building your browser extension

So far I have written code (I know that this isn't exactly coding but I used it for lack of a better term) for a dropdown menu where one can select one of NYU's main three campuses and based on that selection an image of the city where the campus is located is inserted into the page with a text overlay displaying the current time live. I used the example that we were given in the  "My Second Extension" exercise as a template and modified the files the serve our own purpose.

Describe the state of your browser extension project: what progress your team made, what problems you encountered, will you have a working product by the due date

Currently the dropdown menu works and the and an image of the city is inserted onto the webpage as planned but the core we have yet to achieve the core functionality of our extension. The text overlay displays the current time for the Shanghai campus but when the other two campuses are selected it still shows the time for Shanghai. We hope to have this issue resolved by the due date.
