---
layout: post
title: Week 11 | COVID-19 Open Efforts & Tuxemon Progress
---

## Open Efforts

   This week we each discussed open-source projects that we came across that were in response to the current COVID-19 pandemic. It was interesting to learn that some of the projects were not in fact created directly in response to the pandemic but rather shifted their focus on the virus as the situation worsened. Naturally most of the students focused on open-source software such as datasets, information visualizations and even AI models. For my contribution to the discussion, I spoke about a hardware project that I cam across called AmboVent which is basically an emergency ventilator made from the motor of a snow blower and controlled using an Arduino. This project caught my eye because I had never previously thought about hardware as being open source. Not only was the code made available but the design of the electronics and mechanisms as well. This project was developed by a group of Isreali doctors and engineers, and I was pleased to discover that other projects like this were popping up all over the world like the Open Source Covid-19 Ventilator Canada project that another student mentioned. Another project that found really interesting was Open Coronavirus. I thought that the premise of having a centralized system where people could self-report if they contracted the virus and then have the people that they came in contact with receive an anonymous notification that they were exposed was very innovative. If implemented correctly it could potentially help track the spread of the virus and reduce the number of people that would need to be quarantined. Unfortunately, such an application poses a huge risk to an individual's privacy and so won't be published. Besides, with the lack of testing that is currently available worldwide it's hard to say how effective it would really be.

## Tuxemon

   Unfortunately, due to some recent developments here in my hometown, I had to leave home and was unable to attend our group's meeting this week. I was able to later read the messages on discord between my group members and the maintainers, and it seems like they're making progress to add new features to the game such as stat buffs and debuffs as well as status conditions. I have been making steady progress on my own to fix the issue that I raised on github. Overall it's very exciting to be making code contributions now.
