---
layout: post
title: Week 8 - Merging/Rebasing and Final Project
---

## Merging/Rebasing using Git

   For our first remote lecture on 2020/03/11 we began learning about rebasing and how it is different from merging a branch in Git. Both the merge and rebase commands serve the purpose of incorporating new changes to branch but where they differ is in their approach.  Merging creates a "merge commit" which basically adds the history of all the changes that occurred in a branch since separated from master to the history of the master. While it is simple it adds a lot of unnecessary logs. Rebasing on the other hand will, as the name suggests, move the position of the base of a branch to the end of the master branch. It essentially rewrites the history of a branch to incorporate the changes in the master and creates a linear history that is easier to follow. This was a bit difficult to conceptualize at first but thanks to the practical exercises that Professor Klukowska provided in the classes after spring break  really helped me to get a better grasp of these commands.

## Final Project

   Additionally, we were assigned to the groups that we would be working in to contribute to an open-source project. My group had its first meeting via Zoom on 2020/03/27. We came to an agreement that we would work to contribute to Tuxemon, an open-source game inspired by the Pokemon franchise. Not only did we all have an interest in game development but this project was also primarily developed in Python which all of our members are familiar with. Furthermore, the game seems to be very buggy as it is still in the early stages of development so we saw this as a great opportunity to make contributions. We could play the game, make note of the bugs that we come acros,s and create an issue that we could then claim and resolve. It seems like the perfect combination of hard work and fun.

   We then took time out to ensure that everyone was able to install the most recent version of the game and to join the discord server where most of the active contributors interact with one another. Finally we used the remaining time to actually play the game and start recording bugs that we came across.
