---
layout: post
title: Week 1
---


Open Source:

What do YOU think about when you hear the term "open source"?

From my understanding open source refers software that has been licensed by the owner in such a way that the source code is made publicly available for anyone to access, modify or redistribute for whatever reason.

What are some advantages of open vs. closed source, what are some potential problems with open source?

Open source software has a major advantage over proprietary software in terms of flexibility. Since developers can view and study the inner workings of an open source software, they are able to directly alter to the source code to tailor the software to meet their specific needs. Although there will be many contributors working to make an open source software more secure, a major downside that still remains is the possibility of malicious parties finding and exploiting vulnerabilities in a project to gain access to sensitive information.

Why did you decide to register for a class about open source software development?

I believe that in every field that innovation is achieved through collaboration. There are no new ideas. Every new development is built up on the foundation of a previous idea. I am therefore very interested in learning how to work within a larger community where you have veteran developers that can share their experiences and insights and passionate newcomers that can share fresh perspectives.

Projects:

Briefly talk about four open source projects that you regularly use or that influenced you in some way in the past (note, the projects do not have to be source code based) (Keep in mind that these blogs are publicly available to anybody who stumbles upon them. Make sure that the posts are appropriate.)

Firefox is the free and open source software that I most frequently use. Firefox is a web browser that was developed by the Mozilla Foundation and is licensed under the Mozilla Public License (MPL) 2.0. I began to use Firefox as my primary web browser after I discovered that incognito mode on Google Chrome doesn’t actually protect my information from unwanted access by malicious websites whereas Firefox has ad-blocking, tracker-blocking and a host of other security features.

VLC Player is a free and open source media player that was developed VideoLAN and licensed under the GNU General Public License (GLP-2.0) with some libraries being licensed under the GNU Lesser Public License (LGPL-2.0). I personally love VLC Player as it usually can play any type of video regardless of the encoding and compression methods.

LateX is a free and open source typesetting software created by Leslie Lamport and licensed the LateX Project Public License (LPPL). During my college career I have needed to use this software to format my mathematics assignments for submission

Wikipedia is an open source online encyclopedia created by Jimmy Wales and Larry Sanger and licensed under CC Attribution / Share-alike 3.0. Wikipedia has played a huge role in my college career. Although I am aware that it should not be cited in academic works, Wikipedia has helped me greatly when I have needed a simple introduction to familiarize myself with a topic so that I can do further research.
