---
layout: post
title: Week 10 -- Stand-up Reports, Wikipedia, and Project Progress
---

## Stand-up Reports

   Although I was unable to attend last week Wednesday's lecture live, I really enjoyed watching the recording of everyone's stand-up presentations. I found it interesting how differently people were approaching making contributions to their chosen projects. Some people were focused on specific issues and were working towards making one big contribution meanwhile others, like the group working on p5.js, made smaller yet more frequent contributions. The p5.js group stood out to me not only because the volume of their contributions but also the type of contributions they were making. Although we had previously discussed translations as one form of contribution, I honestly forgot about it and so never considered it. As someone that has studied Mandarin for four years now I think it's a contribution that I should be able to make to our chosen project.

## Wikipedia

   Although I have been continuously advised against using the online encyclopedia as a student, I have found it to be an extremely useful resource. I often used Wikipedia as the starting point of my research as it allowed me to get a general understanding of complex topics which I could then use to do more rigorous and in-depth analysis with peer-reviewed sources. Additionally, as a student in Shanghai, I often used Wikipedia for translations when I needed to order something online. A lot of the terms that we use in English can't be directly translated into Mandarin. They have very specific terms in which when translated into English do make sense, but would be impossible to come up with on your own. An example of this is a Neutral-Density Filter that is used in photography. In Mandarin it translates to 中性灰色滤镜 which literally means neutral gray filter. Logically this makes sense but I wouldn't have been able to come up with this term on my own. Essentially, Wikipedia was where I went to get information so I never considered being able to contribute information to it. After our lecture, Professor Klukowska made me realize that I never really looked at topics that I was already knowledgeable about and thanks to that I was able to make my first contribution [https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Last_Week_Tonight_with_John_Oliver]("Last Week Tonight with John Oliver")'s Wikipedia page.

## Project Progress

   My group members and I have been in contact with Tuxemon community and are making steady progress. We have raised a few issues which have gotten a lot of engagement from members of the community and even had a pull request merged to fix a typo in their README file. It is very encouraging seeing the developers being so welcoming to us and now I'm motivated to contribute even more. Hopefully we will be able to move on from simply reporting issues to being able to fix issues soon.
